% Design using C++ \
HW 1 -- Tour of C++ Reading (Ch. 1 - 5)
% Yogesh Garg (yg2482@columbia.edu)
% Jan 24, 2017

<!-- * ```constexpr``` -->
<!-- * ```magic constants``` -->
* I never knew that constructors could be called with ```{}``` instead of ```()```!
```
complex a {2.3}; // construct {2.3,0.0} from 2.3
```

> [16] Prefer the {}-initializer syntax for declarations with a named type; §1.5.

* I thought all the variable I can anticipate I'll need in a function should
be defined in the begining of the function to optimise; I guess compilers are
good enough for that!

> [22] Don’t declare a variable until you have a value to initialize it with; §1.8, §1.9.

<!-- > [8] Prefer class enums over ‘‘plain’’ enums to minimize surprises; §2.5. -->

* Following are good ideas to look at Constructors, I followed the philosophy of
initializing every member variable in the Constructor, but this is a good
generalization I would use.

> [15] Let a constructor establish an invariant, and throw if it cannot; §3.4.2.\
> [16] Design your error-handling strategy around invariants; §3.4.2.

* ```static_assert``` are new to me, I guess I may have seen it, but I never
really used it since it can only be used to check Static variables at compile
time, which I never really felt the need to.

> [17] What can be checked at compile time is usually best checked at compile time (using static_assert); §3.4.3.

* ```std::intializer_list``` is new to me!

> [13] If a class is a container, give it an initializer-list constructor; §4.2.3.

* I have not used a lot of virtual functions and overrides, so it was a good read for me.

> [18] A class with a virtual function should have a virtual destructor; §4.5.\
> [19] Use override to make overriding explicit in large class hierarchies; §4.5.1.

* Definitely a good advice, did not know these types before.

> [24] Use unique_ptr or shared_ptr to avoid forgetting to delete objects created using new; §4.5.4.

* I would call by reference or avoiding passing wherever I could, but I suppose, move makes sense too!

> [26] Return containers by value (relying on move for efficiency); §4.6.2.

* Related, but makes sense; Also for better reading the following sentence could be modified by
replacing _user-defined or deleted_ with  _user-defined (or deleted)_ in the following:

> [28] If a class has a destructor, it probably needs user-defined or deleted copy and move operations; §4.6.5.

* Similar to above, I knew it before too, but it is a life saver!

> [33] If a class has a pointer or reference member, it probably needs a destructor and non-default
copy operations; §4.6.3.

<!-- [15] Access polymorphic objects through pointers and references; §4.3. -->
<!-- > [12] Use resource handles and RAII to manage resources; §4.2.2. -->



<!-- [10] When designing a template, carefully consider the concepts (requirements) assumed for its template arguments; §5.4.
[11] Use concepts as a design tool; §5.4. -->

* I have used variadic templates defined in a codebase before but useful advices

> [16] Use variadic templates when you need a function that takes a variable number of arguments
of a variety of types; §5.6.\
> [17] Don’t use variadic templates for homogeneous argument lists (prefer initializer lists for that);
§5.6.

* I was fascinated by _duck typing_, I did not know there was a name for the thing.
