% Design using C++ \
HW 1 -- Tour of C++ Reading (Ch. 6 - 14)
% Yogesh Garg (yg2482@columbia.edu)
% \today

# Chapter 6
* I am not surprised but I did not know that ```regex``` were a part of std library.
* I am not sure of what ```future``` has in store for me, but I am excited. (pun intended.)

# Chapter 7
* Did not know the differences between ```at()``` and ```[ ]```
    - [7] Use at() rather than iterators or [ ] when you want range checking; §7.2.
    - [8] Use iterators and [ ] rather than at() when you want to optimize speed; §7.2.
* Good to be reminded especially that this is the recommended way:
    - [11] Use a string_stream or a generic value extraction function (such as to<X>) for numeric conversion of strings; §8.8.
    - [12] A basic_string can be used to make strings of characters on any type; §7.2.1.
* Following advice also lists what I did not anticipate or assume in ```regex```
    - [14] Prefer raw string literals for expressing all but the simplest patterns; §7.3.
    - [15] Use regex_match() to match a complete input; §7.3, §7.3.2.
    - [16] Use regex_search() to search for a pattern in an input stream; §7.3.1.
    - [17] The regular expression notation can be adjusted to match various standards; §7.3.2.
    - [18] The default regular expression notation is that of ECMAScript; §7.3.2.

# Chapter 8
* What does type-safe and type-sensitive mean?
    - [2] iostreams are type-safe, type-sensitive, and extensible; §8.1.
* Did not know the right way of reading from ```istream```s, and the use of fail_bit.
    - [3] Define << and >> for user-defined types with values that have meaningful textual representations; §8.1, §8.2, §8.3.
* Does this have to be really done? Does that not defeat the purpose of invariants?
    - [21] Remember to check that a file stream is attached to a file before using it; §8.7.
* Does this mean that source is converted to string to target?
    - [23] You can define conversions between any two types that both have string representation; §8.8.
* Is this how it could be done?
    - ```c++
    to<my_double,std::string>(to<std::string,double>(1.2))
    ```
    - Apart from obvious performance issues, this may be not 'safe' to do, considering precision and types
    - or,```c++
    to<my_double,double>(1.2)
    ```
    - does the above automatically go to the former in case of no definition?
* Or did you mean the following?
    - ```c++
    iostream s;         // can be used to both in-stream and out-steam strings
    double d1;          // standard double
    my_double d2;       // my representation of double
    s << d1;            // to<std::string,double>
    s >> d2;            // to<my_double,std::string>
    ```

# Chapter 9
* This one is a potential bug source, I have faced it before
    - [9] Don’t use iterators into a resized vector; §9.2.
* Good to know about the fifferences between ```at()``` and ```[ ]```
    - [10] Do not assume that [ ] range checks; §9.2.
    - [11] Use at() when you need guaranteed range checks; §9.2.
<!--TODO-->
* They are copied if they are still in scope after being added to a container,
if the sole motivation was to add them to the container, then I believe, they are moved.
    - [12] Elements are copied into a container; §9.2.1.
* I had not seen ```forward_list``` before
    - [15] Use forward_list for sequences that are usually empty; §9.6.
* Knew this but it is always good to be reminded:
    - [21] Prefer compact and contiguous data structures; §9.3.
    - [27] Hash function obtained by combining standard hash functions for elements using exclusive or are often good; §9.5.
* I had figured out this one on my own:
    - [19] Pass a container by reference and return a container by value; §9.2.


# Chapter 10
* I new most of the things from here, but the following served as good advice.
    - [6] When writing a loop, consider whether it could be expressed as a general algorithm; §10.2.
    - [10] When the pair-of-iterators style becomes tedious, introduce a container/range algorithm; §10.7.

# Chapter 11
* I finally found a use case for unique_ptr:
    - [5] Use unique_ptr to refer to objects of polymorphic type; §11.2.1.
* It is interesting to me that duration_cast is called so, to me it looks like a struct constructor
    - [16] Use duration_cast to report time measurements with proper units; §11.4.
    - [17] Often, a lambda is an alternative to using bind() or mem_fn(); §11.5.
* bind, mem_fn, function are new to me:
    - [18] Use bind() to create variants of functions and function objects; §11.5.1.
    - [19] Use mem_fn() to create function objects that can invoke a member function when called using the traditional function call notation; §11.5.2.
    - [20] Use function when you need to store something that can be called; §11.5.3.
* Good to see how to do this:
    - [21] You can write code to explicitly depend on properties of types; §11.6.

possible typo:
Value_type<For>> is the type of For’s elements, called it’s value type. Every standard-library iterator
has a member value_type. I get the Value_type<For>> notation by defining a type alias (§5.7):

# Chapter 12
* These functions were new to me:
    - [4] Consider accumulate(), inner_product(), partial_sum(), and adjacent_difference() before you write a loop to compute a value from a sequence; §12.3.
* I never felt the need to do experiments, I just ran the code and see if the output 'looks' random.
    - [7] Be careful that your random numbers are sufficiently random; §12.5.
* I did not know valarray
    - [8] Use valarray for numeric computation when run-time efficiency is more important than flexibility with respect to operations and element types; §12.6.

# Chapter 13
* Can you explain what happens under the hood in ```ref``` keyword?
    - ```c++
    thread t1 {f,ref(some_vec)}; // f(some_vec) executes in a separate thread
    ```
    - Why is the compiler not able to take it as a reference and takes it as value?
    - Because the thread constructor is variadic?
    - What would happen if I overload a function to take in a value and also a reference? (#TODO)
* Clearly, the right way of doing this is make a class as opposed to the functional way above
    - ```c++
    thread t2 {F{vec2}}; // F(vec2)() executes in a separate thread
    ```
* Do you mean instead of trying to program concurrent threads to do a task, one should try to program separate processes and then run them concurrently?
    - [4] Consider processes as an alternative to threads; §13.1.
* Does that mean that a ```thread``` is symantically and syntactically a thread,
    as opposed to a system thread that could syntactically appear the same as something else?
    - [12] A thread is a type-safe interface to a system thread; §13.2.
* Is the use of lock, and waiting using condition_variable type safe?
* ```packaged_task```s and ```future```s were new to me
    - [20] Prefer packaged_task and futures over direct use of threads and mutexes; §13.7.
* However, I did not see a ```promise``` being used explicitly, I imagine it is a part of ```packaged_task```s and ```async```s
    - [21] Return a result using a promise and get a result from a future; §13.7.1.

# Chapter 14
* C, C++ as siblings and the corresponding Venn Diagram was a very interesting read
* I had seen linkage between C++ and C, specifically, I used ```extern "C"``` by following code examples and blogs, but now I know what and why.
